So now that we've installed the IDE and
the Python plugin if you installed
intelliJ IDEA rather than PyCharm,
we need to make sure that we can find
Python. Now the steps are almost the same
for IntelliJ IDEA and PyCharm and the
chances are that it's sorted itself out
automatically but just in case it hasn't,
I'm going to go through the steps to
configure the Python SDK, we're going to
do that for both IntelliJ IDEA and
PyCharm. So starting with IntelliJ IDEA
first, to do this come down here and
click on configure select project
defaults then select project structure,
in the left hand side when that pops up
click on SDKs and I'm just going to move
that to the center of the screen a bit
more I'll select SDKs and that's where
we set up the Python SDK now in pycharm
it's slightly different so I'm going to
write Python or start to PyCharm so in
Pycharm the way we do that click on
configure and select settings and over
here to the left we click on project
interpreter, you notice that I'm using
the dark healer theme here for Pycharm
so that can tell at a glance which IDE
I'm showing on the screen, so Pycharm
it's got this little cog over here on
the right-hand side of works as the of
the project interpreter box so I'm going
to click on that and then click on add
this brings us to the add Python
interpreter screen so back in IntelliJ IDEA,
we can get to that same screen by
clicking on this little plus button and
selecting Python SDK now at this point
both IDEs are going to look the same so
I'm going to continue with IDE but
you'll do the same as I'm doing here if
you're using Python. Now we've got this
virtual env environment showing up here
I'm not going to explain this virtual env
just yet and that's because we're going
to be looking at them later in the
course what they are is a way of keeping
your path in environments separate so
that things you install for one project
don't affect other projects you may be
working on
and we'll be looking at them from the
command line so I won't be discussing
these options this is a Python course
after all not an IntelliJ or PyCharm
course but once we've explained about
virtually env these options will make
more sense, for now though to get things
working making sure that you've got a
virtualenv clicked over here to the
left hand side in the left pane come
over here and make sure a new
environment is selected then you want to
tick both these boxes inherent to global
site packages and make available to all
projects. Now the location here that
should be your home directory in my case
it's C colon backslash users backslash
Tim that is my home folder then the V E
and V stands for virtual in V
environment and that's been added
automatically by IntelliJ and there's
also this option on there in here which
is optional, we can remove that and that
would be a good default as I've got it
there now if you only ever wanted to use
one version of Python otherwise what you
can do is add the specific version of
Python that you installed in this
section of the course and I'm going to
do that just so you can see how to use
different versions of Python if you want
so in my case it was Python 3.6 so I'm
just going to select Python 3.6 s the
folder there you can see my folder is
now C colon backslash users backslash T
and back slash V env backslash Python
3.6 now IntelliJ IDEA or pycharm should
have found your Python 3.6 installation
or whatever version of python you're
using now if you've installed Python 3.7
which should be out late in 2018 then
that's the version that you'd want here
but if there's no base interpreters
showing and it's a base interpreted box
then you want to come over and click the
ellipsis button over here to the right
and then navigate browse to where you've
installed Python and select that folder,
in my case it's founded automatically so
I don't need to do anything so all I
really need to do at this point is click
on ok and you can see after a moment
IntelliJ IDEA has configured the Python
3.6 installation for me and we're ready
to go, so that's
things set up an IntelliJ well let's
swing over to Pycharm I'm going to
pause the video and show you what that
looks like after you've gone through the
same process in pycharm alright so here
we are now in pycharm and you can see
this is what the screen looks like if
you follow the same instructions to set
up by your project interpreter in
PyCharm. Another point now we can just
click on ok and we're ready to start
creating Python projects you get that
little option there where it's just
going through setting things up and
likewise for IntelliJ if I go back to
that click on OK and we're good to go so
both basically at this point we've done
some basic configuration for both
IntelliJ IDE and pycharm. Now there's one
more change I want to make and that's to
get the IDE to show line numbers in our
code now the steps are the same for both
IDE so I'm just going to show you what
an intelligent idea when I come over
here and click on configure click on
settings then you want to come down here
to editor and expand the little
triangles the little greater than sign
so that we get the list here of options
they want to select general spare that
they want to click on appearance and we
want to make sure here is that the
option to show line numbers is checked.
Now in older versions of IntelliJ IDEA
or pycharm does show line numbers wasn't
a default option so if it isn't ticked
make sure you do check that and tick it
in my case you can see that it's ticked
already and that's because it's very
handy to see in line numbers in your
code especially when you get errors in
the error message talks about line 6 for
example but in my case you can see
that's good to go, so I can click on OK
and again same steps for pycharm if
you're using that. Alright so at this
point we're now ready to start
programming in Python, so skip over the
sections for installing and setting up
Python and IntelliJ on a Mac and Linux
now and in section 5,we'll get to start
writing our first program, so I'll see
you in that section.